Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture I'm going to cover one of my favorite strategies for getting more out of freelancer
and outsourcing platforms.
So the strategy that it's often used by people who outsource all the time or are looking for freelancers
all the time.
Something that I use constantly when I'm looking for freelancers.
What are the biggest issues you'll have is that when you post on freelancer or up work or Elance you'll
notice a big spurt of activity usually within the first hour to two hours you'll get four to five bids
within the first day you might get 25 30 40.
Usually what then happens is that in the next day you might only get two to three.
The next day you might only get one the next day.
You only get one and then the next day you get zero.
Now why does that happen.
The reason why that happens is because when you post a project they give you a lot of exposure really
quickly.
And what's ended up happening is that a lot of freelancers and a lot of freelance firms have adapted
to that.
So what they do is they actually build bots or they hire people who literally just look in the new section
for projects that are popped up very quickly and that's all they do is they just troll those areas.
Now one pretty much unavoidable problem of posting on some of these platforms especially on freelancer
is that a lot of times people just post template responses.
Now that's a reaction to a lot of different things.
If you have a project that is very run of the mill If you're posting in a section that has a lot of
competition and not a lot of supply you're going to get a lot of people posting template answers.
As I've explained elsewhere in the course looking for a freelancer who actually responds specifically
to your project and appears to be dynamic and thoughtful is incredibly important.
So much more important than the price they pitch you.
But what ends up happening a lot of times is you post a project and you get 25 bids and only one person
maybe gives you a actually thoughtful unique response.
So the way you get around that is a technique we just called rapid cycling posts and this is something
that we do on freelancer a lot of the time on freelancer you get Honestly you'll probably get all of
your bids within a couple hours and then nothing after that.
So what you can do is you can post a listing post it see the batch you get if you do not find someone
immediately who clicks you repost it.
OK.
How does that work.
Well the way it works is pretty simple freelancers are only going to look at the content of your post
and not necessarily any of the other unique identifiers in what you're putting up.
So really all you have to do is slightly change the titles slightly change the description maybe delete
a paragraph.
What we often will do is do an attachment and on the attachment have all the actual information about
the project.
Also a good strategy because you want to make sure people open it and spend time reading it and we just
move information in there and move some of it back into the project posting.
That's all you really have to do.
You do not need to pay to get featured.
If you pay $25.
Yes you might get 100 bids and that might be helpful but you can also do as you can just a rapid cycle
your post post one way and our posts another way and our posts another and you get a hundred for $0.
Now the biggest advantage to doing this is that when you actually are posting a project or you posted
projects in the past you'll notice is that there's almost always an obvious answer to your freelancer
especially if you've actually put some thought into the post.
You know exactly what you're looking for and you're responsive.
Now what I mean my response of I mean when you post it and people give you a bid you may immediately
respond and ask questions to make sure that they're engaged and make sure that this isn't just a robot
or a template response but what you can do is very quickly sniff out who are the good freelancers and
who the ones are going to fit and a lot of times you just will not get a winner.
You might get someone you're not totally sure about.
When in doubt read it all you have to do is change the title ever so slightly repost it.
You don't need to pay for upgrades.
This is especially helpful if you're trying to hire someone right now and you post and no one says they
are available right now.
Repost it.
You'll notice that you'll get maybe 20 30 percent of the same people bidding but you'll get another
fresh batch of 80 percent different.
OK that's an advance tip.
An advanced strategy you guys can try it out if it doesn't work for you or you thinking have a strategy
it's a little bit better.
Just post in the group discussion private message me otherwise guys I'll see the next lecture.